We've got our publisher put together and now it just needs an instance of a Nats client in order to
successfully publish stuff.
So we now need to decide where are we going to somehow create our client?
Well, I think that the best location to create this next client is going to be inside of our indexed
file.
If we open up our indexed file inside of our ticket's CRC directory, you'll recall that inside of here
we've already got some startup logic.
So we make sure that we say connect to our MongoDB instance successfully through Mongoose before we
ever even start up our express application or technically start listening to traffic.
Just as our application really needs to have a connection to MongoDB to work successfully, our app
also needs to have a connection to Nat streaming server in order for it to work successfully.
So we should probably make sure that we somehow create our Nat's client or connect to Nat's inside of
here before we ever start listening to traffic.
Now that starts to cause a little bit of an issue.
Let me show you why.
Okay.
So this is a diagram of some different files we have inside of our project.
So we're saying that inside of our index file, we want to initialize a Nats client.
Now, when we think about creating this Nats client, there's a very important distinction to make between
the Nats client that we are using and Mongoose, which we just said, well, we need to connect to.
So here's our connection statement for Mongoose.
When we connect with Mongoose, Mongoose internally keeps a record of all the different connections
that exist.
So we can now after call and connect on this.
We can open up any other file inside of our project and say, Hey, import mongoose.
And today here is a copy of Mongoose that is already connected to some server.
And so we could freely make use of mongoose or through our different models we create to reach out to
MongoDB, make queries and whatnot.
However, the node gnat streaming library that we are using to connect to nets works in a very different
fashion.
I'm going to go back to my Nats test directory and take a look at the publisher.
So inside of the publisher file, you'll recall that when we connect with Nats, there is not some internal
connection or internal object keeping track of this connection inside of this Nats library.
Instead, when we call Nats connect, it directly returns to us, the client.
So this client right here is what we need to somehow manually share among all the different files inside
of our project.
Whereas with Mongoose we don't get any distinct client back.
Instead, Mongoose internally keeps track of this connection and everything related to it.
So in other words, inside of our index file, we're going to have a Nats client object and we want
to somehow share that with a bunch of other files inside of our project.
But that starts to raise a really big issue.
Our ticket created root handler is being imported into the app file, which in turn is getting imported
into indexes.
So we've already got kind of a one way dependency right here.
We are importing this file into that file, into that file.
And we're now starting to say that we want to have some kind of Nats client being created.
And presumably we're going to want to export that from indexed and then possibly import it into the
ticket created route handler.
So notice the circle we're kind of making here of imports.
We are importing this thing this way and then we are importing this thing this way.
We're essentially creating a cyclical import or a cyclical dependency here where this file requires
this one and this file requires this one.
That's something we can technically do.
But it would be really fantastic if we could figure out some way to avoid creating this cyclical dependency.
So we want to still somehow initialize this Nat's client inside of our indexed file, but we do not
want to have it.
Well, need to be imported over to the ticket handler or ticket created root handler from indexed.
So how are we going to solve this?
Well, here's what we're going to do.
We're going to make a new file called Nat's clients.
And the goal of this file is going to be to somehow create a Nats client and behave as a singleton of
sorts.
So we're going to try to build something very similar to Mongoose, where we're going to have some kind
of object that internally keeps track of some client and makes it available to everything else inside
of our app.
The index file is then going to import that and make sure that we have some code inside there to actually
initialize that Nat's client and connect to NAT streaming server.
We will also have some code inside there to make sure that if we ever lose our connection to Nats or
if we are about to shutdown our application, we go through some graceful shutdown process.
Just as a reminder that entire graceful shutdown stuff was really important to do.
If we take a look back at, say, our listener, we really had to do that really graceful shutdown stuff
because otherwise, for some period of time, the Nat streaming server might think that our client is
still active, which we really did not want.
So we're going to do the initialization of that thing inside of index notes, and then we'll also be
able to import that initialized client or kind of pre initialized client into our ticket created route
handler and make use of it inside the root handler itself.
So long story short, we need to create this extra file.
We need to have something inside there that's going to behave as a singleton of sorts and allow us to
get access to this client inside of a bunch of different files.
Yes.
Now we've got a better idea of what's going on.
Let's start to implement this in just a moment.